>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I have
one last section to talk about,
which is reflection,
reflection is a way of inspecting
type data at runtime, well,
its just exactly that.
You're able to do things
like take an object and
get the type of that object,
get the properties off of that object and
read those properties so you could
read the names of those properties.
You could read the values
of those properties and
you can do things with them,
you can print them.
This will become more apparent
in the ASP.Net core course,
we'll introduce little bits of
reflection to just save us keystrokes.
The important thing to know is
that dotnet types are strong and
they are inside of the framework in
a really integrated way such that
the ability to actually go through and
understand what's in a type,
what properties it has,
what methods it has, has a lot of power.
So the first time I saw reflection,
well, let me show an example of it,
let's take this person object,
for instance,
you can get the type of that person object
and then get a reference to that property.
So, this would actually be something
where it could actually is an object that
represents the property
inside of the runtime and
then you could use that to actually
change the value of that property.
And this doesn't seem
like it's super useful,
why wouldn't you simply
just assign the property?
Until you get to the point of realizing
that reflection gives you a lot
of power when you don't always know the
type of the thing that you're interacting
with ahead of time.
When you get into writing framework code,
this becomes incredibly useful
because you're able to create constructs
that will be able to read and
write from and to types.
Without knowing that type ahead of time,
and that has a lot of cool implications.
You can even create types at runtime and
then instantiate them yourself
using methods like the one
activator.createinstance which again,
does have have value.
This will become relevant when we
talk about dependency injection
in the ASP.NET Core course.
It becomes really important then because
oftentimes when we're interacting with
a dependency injection system, the only
thing we know about an object is its type,
we don't necessarily
know its implementation.
So, we can use that to our advantage and
we can use reflection to do that,
the important thing to note is that
when you're beginning programming,
this does not seem super
useful at its face.
It's one of those things that I encourage
you to just put in the back of your head
because you will find as you get into your
career times where you're just like, man,
if I only knew at runtime what
this object was gonna be.
C sharp is a flexible and it's a great
language but it doesn't have everything in
it that you would need to know everything
about your type at runtime and
reflection can kind of
help bridge that gap.
One last note about reflection,
which is attributes.
Attributes are metadata that you can add
to the code that you write in order to
give it some data or metadata about how
that thing should behave downstream.
So let's take an app and
a HTTP server that we've created and
we've modeled our incoming request
as a create employee request for
the first name, last name and department.
And perhaps in the system that
those things are required,
we can mark those things with attributes
to say that those things are required, and
then downstream when
we're doing validation.
When we're using a validation framework,
ASP Netcore and other frameworks can
automatically say this thing is required,
if you give me an empty string or a null
string, I will send a message back to the
client saying that that thing is required.
You can do all sorts of things with With
this, including instructing those that
those attributes to say, do we want to
allow empty strings in this request?
If so, okay, no, if so, then yes,
an empty string is valid, otherwise,
this thing is required and
it should not be an empty string.
Attributes can be used on all
sorts of parts of the language,
including parameters,
methods and properties.
I use the most commonly on methods and
properties and you'll see a ton of
examples of that in the ASP NET core
course where attributes are pretty
much used everywhere to add metadata for
ASP NET Core to use to do its job.
Finally, you can create
your own attributes,
I don't often have to do it unless
I'm writing framework code, or
specific code where I want that
know that metadata at time.
I need to know that that member or that
property or that method has a specific
attribute on it, and then perform some
kind of action downstream in my code.
This is where reflection really becomes
powerful, is when you're able to take
metadata that you're able to read
from objects from your types,
and then perform actions
downstream on them.
This is everywhere in ASP.NET Core, and
we'll talk about that in
that course quite a bit.
The main thing about attributes that you
need to know is that they exist, and
that they're used to add metadata
to your runtime properties, and
that their implications of that are vast,
very many.
Last thing that I had on the that is
absolutely we don't need to cover it,
was just talking about the hosting
model in.net you can, if you want to
explore that and kind of learn about
it ahead of the ASP NET core class.
But a lot of that stuff is just content
to kind of tee up the ASP NET Core class.